# Djokic EE282 Data Analysis Proposal

In my previous topic proposal, I proposed determining the diversity and abundance of bacteria in the gut and utilizing non-metric dimensional scaling (NMDS) plots to visualize gut microbiome data on mosquitofish from ponds of varying pollution levels. I will not have access to the microbiome dataset I talked about in my project proposal as the samples have not yet been sequenced. Rather, I am going to utilize a dataset of microbiome data on two species of abalone that is readily available from my lab. The dataset consists of Illumina data from the Genomics Research and Technology Hub in the form of fastq files. I am going to address the following questions through the final project data analysis: How do microbiomes of two abalone species differ? What are the most abundant operational taxonomic units in each species? Although this data differs from that mentioned in my earlier proposal, I am still able to carry out the same data analysis techniques I initially hoped to, but it will no longer be directly applied to my dissertation project. I will access the abalone dataset through my advisor’s shared drive on HPC3.

I will use several analyses and software packages to analyze the abalone microbiome data and visualize differences between species. Specifically, I will use DADA2 because of its high resolution and accuracy to perform a quality control of the data and trim and remove primers from the data. In QIIME2, I will calculate alpha diversity using Shannon’s diversity index, a quantitative measure of community richness. Also in QIIME2, I will use Bray-Curtis distance, a quantitative measure of abundance, to calculate beta diversity. I will use QIIME2 to visualize common operational taxonomic units with a bar chart. I will use RStudio to generate an NMDS plot to visualize beta-diversity in my dataset and a box plot to visualize alpha-diversity. DADA2, QIIME2, and RStudio are all free and are, therefore, accessible, appropriate, and feasible for me to use in my microbiome analyses.

It was my goal in enrolling in this course to learn how to handle and analyze sequencing data. The above proposed data analysis project will allow me to write the foundational script that I will later be able to change to fit my new dataset for my actual dissertation project once I receive sequenced data from the Genomics Research Technology Hub.
